df - (Disk Free) display free disk space. With no arguments, 'df' reports the space used and available on all currently mounted filesystems (of all types). Otherwise, 'df' reports on the filesystem containing each argument FILE.


Syntax

     df [option]... [FILE]...
Normally the disk space is printed in units of 1024 bytes, but this can be overridden.
Options

   -a
   --all
      Include in the listing filesystems that have a size of 0 blocks,
      which are omitted by default.  Such filesystems are typically
      special-purpose pseudo-filesystems, such as automounter entries.
      Also, filesystems of type "ignore" or "auto", supported by some
      operating systems, are only included if this option is specified.

   -h
   --human-readable
      Append a size letter such as 'M' for megabytes to each size.
      Powers of 1024 are used, not 1000; 'M' stands for 1,048,576 bytes.
      Use the '-H' or '--si' option if you prefer powers of 1000.

   -H
   --si
      Append a size letter such as 'M' for megabytes to each size.  (SI
      is the International System of Units, which defines these letters
      as prefixes.)  Powers of 1000 are used, not 1024; 'M' stands for
      1,000,000 bytes.  Use the '-h' or '--human-readable' option if you
      prefer powers of 1024.

   -i
   --inodes
      List inode usage information instead of block usage.  An inode
      (short for index node) is contains information about a file such
      as its owner, permissions, timestamps, and location on the disk.

   -k
   --kilobytes
      Print sizes in 1024-byte blocks, overriding the default block size.

   -l
   --local
      Limit the listing to local filesystems.  By default, remote
      filesystems are also listed.

   -m
   --megabytes
      Print sizes in megabyte (that is, 1,048,576-byte) blocks.

   --no-sync
      Do not invoke the 'sync' system call before getting any usage data.
      This can make 'df' run significantly faster on systems with many
      disks, but on some systems (notably SunOS) the results can be
      slightly out of date.  This is the default.

   -P
   --portability
      Use the POSIX output format.  This is like the default format
      except that the information about each filesystem is always
      printed on exactly one line; a mount device is never put on a line
      by itself.  This means that if the mount device name is more than
      20 characters long (e.g., for some network mounts), the columns
      are misaligned.

   --sync
      Invoke the 'sync' system call before getting any usage data.  On
      some systems (notably SunOS), doing this yields more up to date
      results, but in general this option makes 'df' much slower,
      especially when there are many or very busy filesystems.

   -t FSTYPE
   --type=FSTYPE
      Limit the listing to filesystems of type FSTYPE.  Multiple
      filesystem types can be specified by giving multiple '-t' options.
      By default, nothing is omitted.

   -T
   --print-type
      Print each filesystem's type.  The types printed here are the same
      ones you can include or exclude with '-t' and '-x'.  The particular
      types printed are whatever is supported by the system.  Here are
      some of the common names (this list is certainly not exhaustive):

     'nfs'
         An NFS filesystem, i.e., one mounted over a network from
         another machine.  This is the one type name which seems to be
         used uniformly by all systems.

     '4.2, ufs, efs...'
         A filesystem on a locally-mounted hard disk.  (The system
         might even support more than one type here; Linux does.)

     'hsfs, cdfs'
         A filesystem on a CD-ROM drive.  HP-UX uses 'cdfs', most other
         systems use 'hsfs' ('hs' for 'High Sierra').

     'pcfs'
         An MS-DOS filesystem, usually on a diskette.

   -x FSTYPE
   --exclude-type=FSTYPE
      Limit the listing to filesystems not of type FSTYPE.  Multiple
      filesystem types can be eliminated by giving multiple '-x'
      options.  By default, no filesystem types are omitted.

   -v
      Ignored; for compatibility with System V versions of 'df'.

If an argument FILE is a disk device file containing a mounted filesystem, 'df' shows the space available on that filesystem rather than on the filesystem containing the device node (i.e., the root filesystem). GNU 'df' does not attempt to determine the disk usage on unmounted filesystems, because on most kinds of systems doing so requires extremely nonportable intimate knowledge of filesystem structures.


Examples

List free disk space:

df -h

Email a disk free space report:

df -h | grep 'File' -A1 | mail -s "Disk space Report" you@example.com


*See also: du, quot, tunefs, mnttab, attributes