dmesg command also called as “driver message” or “display message” is used to examine the kernel ring buffer and print the message buffer of kernel. The output of this command contains the messages produced by the device drivers. Usage of dmesg : When the computer boots up, there are lot of messages(log) generated during the system start-up. So you can read all these messages by using dmesg command. The contents of kernel ring buffer are also stored in /var/log/dmesg file. The dmesg command can be useful when system encounters any problem during its start-up, so by reading the contents of dmesg command you can actually find out where the problem occurred(as there are many steps in system boot-up sequence).  


Syntax

      dmesg [ -c ] [ -n level ] [ -s bufsize ]

The dmesg program allows you to print system messages from the buffer (mostly kernel and drivers loading at bootup) and can also be used to configure the kernel ring buffer.


Options

   -c          Clear the ring buffer contents after printing.

   -s bufsize  Use a buffer of size bufsize to query the kernel ring buffer.
               This is 16392 by default. (The default kernel syslog buffer 
               size was 4096 at first, 8192 since 1.3.54, 16384 since 2.1.113.)
               If you have set the kernel buffer to be larger than the default
               then this option can be used to view the entire buffer. 

   -n level    Set the level at which logging of messages is done to the console.
               For example, -n 1 prevents all messages, expect panic messages,
               from appearing on the console. All levels of messages are still
               written to /proc/kmsg, so syslogd(8) can still be used to control exactly
               where kernel messages appear. When the -n option is used, dmesg will not
               print or clear the kernel ring buffer.
When both options are used, only the last option on the command line will have an effect.
As it's a ring-buffer, it will automatically cycle out old information when the buffer is full.


Examples

image001


*See also: chkconfig, syslogd