dos2unix - Windows/MAC to UNIX text file format converter.


Syntax

      dos2unix [options] [-c convmode] [-o file ...] [-n infile outfile ...]


Key

   -h --help        Print online help. 
   -k --keepdate    Keep the date stamp of output file same as input file. 
   -q --quiet       Quiet mode. Suppress all warning and messages.
   -V --version     Prints version information.

   -c --convmode convmode
                    Set conversion mode.
                    Where convmode is one of: ASCII, 7bit, ISO, Mac with ASCII being the default.
                    Simulates dos2unix under SunOS.

   -o --oldfile file ...
                    Old file mode.
                    Convert the file and write output to it. The program defaults to run in this mode.
                    Wildcard names may be used.

   -n --newfile infile outfile ...
                    New file mode. Convert the infile and write output to outfile.
                    File names must be given in pairs and wildcard names should NOT be used or you WILL lose your files.
dos2unix converts plain text files in DOS/MAC format to UNIX format.

Later versions of dos2unix have additional options to add/remove Byte Order Marks (BOM) and handle alternate code pages.

Alternative using sed

sed -i -e 's/\r//g' file


Examples

Get input from stdin and write output to stdout:
dos2unix

Convert and replace a.txt. Convert and replace b.txt.

dos2unix a.txt b.txt
dos2unix -o a.txt b.txt

Convert and replace a.txt in ASCII conversion mode.

dos2unix a.txt -c iso b.txt

Convert and replace b.txt in ISO conversion mode.

dos2unix -c ascii a.txt -c iso b.txt

Convert c.txt from Mac to Unix ascii format.

dos2unix -c mac c.txt b.txt

Convert and replace a.txt while keeping original date stamp.

dos2unix -k a.txt
dos2unix -k -o a.txt

Convert a.txt and write to e.txt.

dos2unix -n a.txt e.txt

Convert a.txt and write to e.txt, keep date stamp of e.txt same as a.txt.

dos2unix -k -n a.txt e.txt

Convert and replace a.txt. Convert b.txt and write to e.txt.

dos2unix a.txt -n b.txt e.txt
dos2unix -o a.txt -n b.txt e.txt

Convert c.txt and write to e.txt. Convert and replace a.txt. Convert and replace b.txt. Convert d.txt and write to f.txt.

dos2unix -n c.txt e.txt -o a.txt b.txt -n d.txt f.txt


*See also: unix2dos, dos2unix