iconv command is used to convert some text in one encoding into another encoding. If no input file is provided then it reads from standard input. Similarly, if no output file is given then it writes to standard output. If no from-encoding or to-encoding is provided then it uses current local’s character encoding.  


Syntax

      iconv [Option...] -f encoding -t encoding inputfile 
      iconv -l


Key

   -f encoding
   --from-code encoding
          Convert characters From encoding.

   -t encoding
   --to-code encoding
          Convert characters To encoding.

   --list
          List known coded character sets
          The encodings available are system dependent.

   -o file
   --output file
          Specify an output file (instead of stdout.)


Options controlling conversion problems:

   -c     When this option is given, characters that cannot be converted are silently
          discarded, instead of leading to a conversion error.

   --unicode-subst=formatstring
          Replace Unicode characters that cannot be represented in the target
          encoding with a placeholder string that is constructed from formatstring,
          applied to the Unicode code point. The formatstring must be in the same
          format as for the printf command or the  printf() function, taking either
          no argument or exactly one unsigned integer argument.

   --byte-subst=formatstring
          Replace bytes in the input that are not valid in the source encoding 
          with a placeholder string constructed from the given formatstring,
          applied to the byte's value. The formatstring must be in the same
          format as for the printf command or  the  printf()  function, taking either
          no argument or exactly one unsigned integer argument.

   --widechar-subst=formatstring
          Replace wide characters in the input that are not valid in the source
          encoding with a placeholder string that is constructed from the given
          formatstring, applied to the byte's value. The formatstring must
          be in the same format as for the printf command or the  printf() function,
          taking either no argument or exactly one unsigned integer argument.


Options controlling error output:

   −s
   −−silent
        Suppress error messages about invalid or unconvertible characters are omitted

   --verbose
        Print progress information. 
The iconv program converts the encoding of characters in inputfile from one coded character set to another. The result is written to standard output unless otherwise specified by the --output option.


Examples

Print the list of all character set encodings   
iconv -l 
image001

Reading and writing from a file 
iconv -f UTF-8 -t ASCII//TRANSLIT -o out.txt in.txt 
image002


*See also: uuencode