Examples on How to monitor system activity in Linux Using `top` Command
1) Exit Top Command After Specific repetition:
Top output keep refreshing until you press ‘q‘. With below command top command will automatically exit after 10 number of repetition.
top -n 10
2) Display Specific User Process
top -u paras
3)Shows top command syntax:
top -h












Touch
touch is used to create a file without any content. The file created using the touch command is empty. This command can be used when the user doesn’t have data to store at the time of file creation.
Syntax:
touch [options] file_name
How to Create Multiple Empty Files by Using Touch Command in Linux.

touch File1_name File2_name File3_name
Multiple files with name Doc1, Doc2, Doc3 are created at the same time using touch command here.


Options and Pratical Implementation of How to Create an Empty File in Linux


`-a` option in `touch` Command to Only Update Access Time

touch -a fileName










Tput
tput is used to change the text on the screen. It can be used to change the foreground and background colors. In addition, you can use the tput command to change the line wrapping, cursor position, and even text attributes like bold and underline. Tput commands are very useful for making a computer’s display look pretty.
To change the text color, type: tput green and press Enter. The prompt will change to reflect the new color. You can also enter commands to change other colors such as blue, red, and yellow. To reverse a color-change command, type: tput blank followed by Enter. The prompt will revert to its original color. You can delete a color with: tput null. To reset all colors back to their default values, use tput reset.





Tr
tr command is a UNIX command-line utility for translating or deleting characters. It supports a range of transformations including uppercase to lowercase, squeezing repeating characters, deleting specific characters, and basic find and replace. It can be used with UNIX pipes to support more complex translation. tr stands for translate.
Syntax :
$ tr [OPTION] SET1 [SET2]
Options -c : complements the set of characters in string.i.e., operations apply to characters not in the given set -d : delete characters in the first set from the output. -s : replaces repeated characters listed in the set1 with single occurrence -t : truncates set1.
Example:
How to convert lower case characters to upper case

How to translate white-space characters to tabs.




The `traceroute` command is a network diagnostic tool used to trace the route taken by packets from a source to a destination over an IP network. It provides valuable insights into the network path, including the number of hops (routers) between the source and destination, and the round-trip time (RTT) for each hop.
Syntax:

traceroute [options] destination
Options Available in Traceroute

Examples:
Basic Traceroute Usage
traceroute google.com


Using IPv4 with Traceroute
traceroute -4 google.com
















